= Trucker

Trucker is a gem that helps migrate legacy data into a Rails app.

== Install


1. Install the trucker gem

    sudo gem install trucker

2. Add trucker to your <em>config.gem</em> block in environment.rb
  
    config.gem "trucker"

2. Generate the basic trucker files

    script/generate truck

    This will do the following things:
    * Add legacy adapter to database.yml
    * Add legacy base class
    * Add legacy sub classes for all existing models
    * Add app/models/legacy to load path in Rails Initializer config block
    * Generate sample migration task (using pluralized model names)
  
3. Update the legacy database adapter in <em>database.yml</em> with your legacy database info

    legacy:
      adapter: mysql
      encoding: utf8
      database: app_legacy
      username: root
      password:
      
    (By convention, we recommend naming your legacy database APP_NAME_legacy.)

4. If the legacy database doesn't already exist, add it.

    rake db:create:all

5. Import your legacy data into the legacy database
   
    mysql -u root app_legacy < old_database.sql

6. Update <em>set_table_name</em> in each of your legacy models as needed

    class LegacyPost < LegacyBase
      set_table_name "LEGACY_TABLE_NAME_GOES_HERE"
    end

7. Update legacy model field mappings as needed

    class LegacyPost < LegacyBase
      set_table_name "YOUR LEGACY TABLE NAME GOES HERE"
  
      def map
        {
          :headline => self.title.squish,
          :body => self.long_text.squish
        }
      end
    end

    Non-legacy model attributes on the left side.
    Legacy model attributes on the right side.
    (aka :new_field => legacy_field)
    
8. Need to tweak some data? Just add some core ruby methods or add a helper method.

    class LegacyPost < LegacyBase
      set_table_name "YOUR LEGACY TABLE NAME GOES HERE"

      def map
        {
          :headline => self.title.squish.capitalize,
          :body => self.long_text.squish
        }
      end
    end

    class LegacyPost < LegacyBase
      set_table_name "YOUR LEGACY TABLE NAME GOES HERE"

      def map
        {
          :headline => tweak_title(self.title.squish),
          :body => self.long_text.squish
        }
      end
      
      def tweak_title(title)
        title = title.capitalize
        title = title.gsub(/teh/, "the")
      end
    end
  
9. Start migrating!
   
    rake db:migrate:posts

== Custom Helpers

Trucker is intended for migrating data from fairly simple web apps that started life on PHP, Perl, etc. So, if you're migrating data from an enterprise system, this may not be your best choice.

That said, if you need to pull off a complex migration for a model, you can use a custom helper method to override Trucker's default migrate method in your rake task.

    namespace :db do
      namespace :migrate do

        ...
    
        desc 'Migrate pain_in_the_ass model'
        task :pain_in_the_ass => :environment do
          Trucker.migrate :pain_in_the_ass, :helper => pain_in_the_ass_migration
        end 

      end
    end

    def pain_in_the_ass_migration
      # Custom code goes here
    end

Then just copy the migrate method from lib/trucker.rb and tweak accordingly.


== Background

Trucker is based on a migration technique using legacy models first pioneered by Dave Thomas:
http://pragdave.blogs.pragprog.com/pragdave/2006/01/sharing_externa.html


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Contributors

* Patrick Crowley
* Rob Kaufman
* Jordan Fowler

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Patrick Crowley and Rob Kaufman. See LICENSE for details.
